First you need to create a file that contains only the ciphertext
that you wish to analyze.  The data/ subdirectory has some
samples that you can use.  Let's play with
data/sample_aristocrat.txt for now.

Start up the ctool application.  Go to the File menu -> New
cipher.  It will open up a file browser and ask for a file to
open.  Navigate to the data/sample_aristocrat.txt file and hit
'ok'.  Next a listbox will open up with a list of possible cipher
types.  Select "aristocrat" and hit 'ok'.  The display will
update to show the current cipher, and update the inputs to
reflect the actions you can take on this cipher type.  In the
case of aristocrats, you can make simple substitutions, undo
substitutions, or locate a tip.

To make a substitution, select the plaintext letter by pressing
one of the letters in the top row of buttons.  Try 't'.  Now
select a ct letter by pressing one of the letters in the bottom
row.  Try 'd'.  Now press the button labelled "substitute".  The
display at the bottom will be updated to show that all 'd's stand
for 't'.

Another interesting part of the display is the key window.  Go to
the 'view' menu and select "show key".  A new area will open up
that shows the K1 and K2 keyed alphabets for this cipher.  These
are updated every time you make a new substitution.

You'll notice there are buttons for 'solve' and 'set period' in
the aristocrat display.  Ignore them.  They don't do anything.
Other cipher types like vigenere, bifid, and columnar
transpositions make use of these buttons.

Not all of the cipher types can be displayed in the interface.
The README file describes which can and can't be used.

If you run into any problems with the interface, or have opinions
on what you do or don't like about it, please let me know.
Feedback is much appreciated.

